Can we make this quick?  Roxanne Korrine and Andrew Barrett are having an incredibly horrendous public break- up on the quad.  Again.	Well, I thought we'd start with pronunciation, if that's okay with you.
Well, I thought we'd start with pronunciation, if that's okay with you.	Not the hacking and gagging and spitting part.  Please.
Not the hacking and gagging and spitting part.  Please.	Okay... then how 'bout we try out some French cuisine.  Saturday?  Night?
You're asking me out.  That's so cute. What's your name again?	Forget it.
No, no, it's my fault -- we didn't have a proper introduction ---	Cameron.
Cameron.	The thing is, Cameron -- I'm at the mercy of a particularly hideous breed of loser.  My sister.  I can't date until she does.
The thing is, Cameron -- I'm at the mercy of a particularly hideous breed of loser.  My sister.  I can't date until she does.	Seems like she could get a date easy enough...
Why?	Unsolved mystery.  She used to be really popular when she started high school, then it was just like she got sick of it or something.
Unsolved mystery.  She used to be really popular when she started high school, then it was just like she got sick of it or something.	That's a shame.
Gosh, if only we could find Kat a boyfriend...	Let me see what I can do.
C'esc ma tete. This is my head	Right.  See?  You're ready for the quiz.
Right.  See?  You're ready for the quiz.	I don't want to know how to say that though.  I want to know useful things. Like where the good stores are.  How much does champagne cost?  Stuff like Chat.  I have never in my life had to point out my head to someone.
I don't want to know how to say that though.  I want to know useful things. Like where the good stores are.  How much does champagne cost?  Stuff like Chat.  I have never in my life had to point out my head to someone.	That's because it's such a nice one.
That's because it's such a nice one.	Forget French.
How is our little Find the Wench A Date plan progressing?	Well, there's someone I think might be --
There.	Where?
You got something on your mind?	I counted on you to help my cause. You and that thug are obviously failing. Aren't we ever going on our date?
You have my word.  As a gentleman	You're sweet.
How do you get your hair to look like that?	Eber's Deep Conditioner every two days. And I never, ever use a blowdryer without the diffuser attachment.